When is pedestrian traffic a real concern and how is this app supposed to address?
Will GPS be allowed as part of the available sensors, considering the loss of wifi signal in many parts of campus?
What assistance should the app provide for disabled people? How will the location of lifts and ramps be accurately indicated in the app without precise location data?
What platform will it be developed for?
In large will the app guide you to the right class?
How will the software be installed on devices? (playstore, )
May we make use of google maps?
Is data capture part of the project scope? That is the enumeration of building names, positions and routes.(It turns into a functional requirement)
What visual information will the student as a user be able to see from the interface?
Could you explain more precisely what crowd-sourcing features the software should have?
Note that crowd-sourcing cannot include location data of a device since its signature is persistent.
Could you enumerate the different 'level of users or agents' that the system will support?
What agents should the system support?
What users and agents will have access to the raw data?
What users and agents will have access to the surveillance feature?
How should users and agents be authenticated?
Where does the web interface fit in? What will it be used for?
Should the app be silent(mobile data) when not connected to wifi?
For mobile users, will the program run in the background all the time. How will this affect battery drain?

Extension of scope:
  Perhaps security alerts can be pushed to users. Such as unrest due to protests or any other security issues. This will promote user retention and adoption after the fist part of the semester where people are still learning the layout of the campus.

Has the client made sure that all system requirements are in line with restrictions by law?
The below wall of text is only a small part of the sticky mess that is POPI compliance if user data is collected in the way suggested.
I would recommend we urge the client to consult someone from the law faculty that specialises in legal compliance to acts such as POPI.

Regarding targeted delivery of information:
  This has a huge security implication since devices will need to have a persistent identity attached to it for targeted delivery to function as expected.
  A breach will infringe on the privacy of all of its users. An adversary can build a complete profile of each user and its social networks.
  How long will this information be stored?
  Where will it be stored?
  How should it be protected?

According to POPI section 11.2.b, a data subject may withdraw consent for its data to be used. This data must be removed within a reasonable time. How will we facilitate this requirement?

How should we convey to the user the purpose and the type of information that will be collected?

How will the process for access to data subject information be implemented?
  Condition 8 Data subject participation
  Access to personal information
  23.
  (1) A data subject, having provided adequate proof of identity, has the right to—
  (a)request a responsible party to confirm, free of charge, whether or not the
  responsible party holds personal information about the data subject; and
  (b)request from a responsible party the record or a description of the personal
  information about the data subject held by the responsible party, including
  information about the identity of all third parties, or categories of third parties,
  who have, or have had, access to the information—
  (i)  within a reasonable time;
  (ii)  at a prescribed fee, if any;
  (iii)  in a reasonable manner and format; and
  (iv)  in a form that is generally understandable.

How should we implement the following compliance requirement:
  24.
  (1) A data subject may, in the prescribed manner, request a responsible party to—
  (a)correct or delete personal information about the data subject in its possession
  or under its control that is inaccurate, irrelevant, excessive, out of date,
  incomplete, misleading or obtained unlawfully; or
  (b)destroy or delete a record of personal information about the data subject that
  the responsible party is no longer authorised to retain in terms of section 14

Section 14. requires that:
  (1) Subject to subsections (2) and (3), records of personal information must not be
  retained any longer than is necessary for achieving the purpose for which the
  information was collected or subsequently processed

  This means that we should have an expiry date on the data once a student completes his/her degree or guest leaves the campus.


Capturing user location data and "targeted delivery of information" has legal implications and requirements such as the POPI act. This requires that data be stored in a secure manner and reasonable measures must be taken to protect the data from unauthorised access.
Main points of discussion in the POPI act are the following items:
    Accountability
    Processing limitation
      Lawfulness of processing
      Minimality
      Consent, justification and objection
        ______how should we notify users on what information is recorded and what it is used for?______
      Collection directly from data subject
    Purpose specification
      The data subject must be informed of the the purpose of the data collection.
      Retention and restriction of records
    Further processing limitation
    Information quality
    Openness
      A responsible party must maintain the documentation of all processing operations
      under its responsibility as referred to in section 14 or 51 of the Promotion of Access to Information Act
    Security Safeguards
      Very important section. This section is arguably the hardest to comply with since it requires extensive restriction and modification of the requirements spec to comply with the act.
    Data subject participation
  Section 71 might be relevant depending on what the heat maps and persistent identities will be used for:
    Subject to subsection (2), a data subject may not be subject to a decision which
    results in legal consequences for him, her or it, or which affects him, her or it to a
    substantial degree, which is based solely on the basis of the automated processing of
    personal information intended to provide a profile of such person including his or her
    performance at work, or his, her or its credit worthiness, reliability, _____location______, health,
    _____personal preferences_____ or conduct.
  The crowdsourcing feature also might be overstepping on the POPI act namely:
    12. Collection directly from data subject:
    (1) Personal information must be collected directly from the data subject, except
    as otherwise provided for in subsection (2)

